# Full Stack React Application - Todo Application with Time of Day Focus

Our group (Victor Esonu, Devin Jansa, Nicholas Meade and Trey Williams) in the General Assembly [Software Engineering Immersive](https://generalassemb.ly/education/software-engineering-immersive-remote) created a Full Stack React Application for our project - a Todo Application with Time of Day focus.

## Goals of our application

We decided to create a Todo application that takes a twist on normal Todo applications. Our goal was to have a focus on the user being able to selectively choose the time of day they create, modify and delete their todos they make.

Three times of day are the focus - Morning, Afternoon and Evening. We believe this approach can make a more useful Todo app user experience to maintain their focus on completing their tasks throughout the day, instead of seeing 10+ tasks all at once at the very start of the day.

### General approach for creating our application

#### Backend approach

We decided on a two schema/model approach. Our wireframes for our schema/model development can be found [here](https://wireframe.cc/ukyPzy), which also contains the wireframes for our frontend vision. We initially had a goal of three schemas/models, but decided on two for our first version.

The task list schema/model is used for creating/updating/deleting an individual todo generated by the user. This schema/model also includes a Boolean of "completed" - a goal for future versions would be to utilize this for allowing the user to decide if their todo was completed or not.

The time of day schema/model is used for housing a collection of todos generated by the user for a specific time of the day (Morning, Afternoon, Evening), which is accomplished by the association of the task list schema/model within the time of day schema/model.

Two controllers (timeController, todoController) were created to make the CRUD methods for each schema/model, which is integrated into our frontend React applciation by using fetch requests.

#### Frontend approach

Planning our frontend included making a [roadmap](https://wireframe.cc/lbP3m1) of our component structure. Our goal for the frontend React application is mobile focused, with the only change that occurs in our first version goals is our navigation bar defaulting to an 'Overview' page to look at the user's todos based on the time of day at a glance, with clicking a hamburger menu to click on a time of day, which would collapse the other times of the day and expand the chosen time of day from the menu. On larger screen views the times of day to choose from would be shown directly in the navigation bar instead of a hamburger menu.

Our planning included a Nav component to house being able to navigvate to different options - Overview, Morning, Afternoon and Evening. A Controls component houses where we make our API calls to create, update and delete tasks. A Displays component houses how we display and interact with the todos based on the times of the day.

### Future version goals

Creating our full stack application from scratch leaves us with more goals we'd like future versions to have beyond what we accomplished in our project timeline. These include:

- being able to have a todo created go specifically to the time of day chosen, currently defaults to all times of day
- when clicking delete for a todo, it updates upon clicking the delete button, currently is only reflected when refreshing the webpage after clicking the delete button
- build out our Overview page which can give the user a preview at a glance of 1-2 todos of each time of the day, cycling through a few background images depending on the time of day of the user's local time, having useful local information for the user populate like their current weather, time of day and current date
- when choosing a time of day, it expands only that time of day's tasks, and collapses the other time of day's task lists
- spend time on CSS styling and enhancing the UI/UX of our application to match our vision for the application

### Technologies used

React, Node.js, MongoDB, Mongoose. The [backend](https://github.com/Team-French-Fries/todo-fries-api) will be deployed on Heroku. The [frontend](https://github.com/Team-French-Fries/todo-fries-client) will be deployed on Github Pages.
